Incoming livestream: I'm also really, shocked and delighted that, the organizers put a talk about statistical evaluation of LLMs this second on the program. Hopefully I won't disappoint, so… Okay, so I'm Josh Sachs, and I'm going to be talking about, how we evaluate, autonomous systems for cyber defense.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so, as of last Thursday, I'm at a startup that some friends and I co-founded. Before that, for about 4 years, I was, I was tech-leading a lot of the AI security work at Meta, so I worked with the teams that are working on applying
Incoming livestream: AI to the sort of broad range of security problems at Meta. I also worked on prompt injection defense and defending, defending AI systems from AI-native attacks. Ancient history, you know, I sort of grew up in the hacker scene.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so echoing the last talk, so as attack… so I think, probably, we're all on the same page that, it's gonna become much cheaper and much more easy to do sophisticated cyber attacks going forwards, right? So, I think we can expect in the next few years
Incoming livestream: that attackers will go from manual laborers to managers of AI agents that are doing attacks. This means that we have a big problem on our hands, right? So there's many organizations that have very few IT security staff at all. They're gonna need autonomous cyber defenders, and then there's larger organizations also who I think are really vulnerable. I think anybody who's worked in security has always felt understaffed.
Incoming livestream: So we're gonna need to build… we're gonna need to get comfortable, with, the kind of proposition I'm suggesting on this slide, right? So an AI system completely autonomously making a dangerous decision, like, quarantining a production server, because it looks compromised.
Incoming livestream: We're gonna need to get comfortable with AI systems, doing jobs that we only entrusted, to humans in the past. Let's say there's some critical insider threat alert, we're gonna need to trust an AI system when it says, just trust me, bro. I investigated alert, you don't have to worry about it.
Incoming livestream: And then we're ultimately gonna have to get comfortable with, really sensitive actions, right? Like, AI systems, like, imagine a hospital now that has, you know, two IT, you know, two IT security workers who can't possibly, cover the entire threat surface. That hospital will need to be on…
Incoming livestream: need to be armed with, a team of AI agents, right, that's able to do things like quarantine the CTO's account when it looks like, when it looks like it's compromised.
Incoming livestream: patch a production codebase, shut down and compromise hosts. All of that will have to be,
Incoming livestream: We'll have to be able to trust agents to take these kinds of sensitive decisions autonomously.
Incoming livestream: And we have the additional problem that,
Incoming livestream: That, to actually verify that defensive autonomous systems work,
Incoming livestream: requires that we somehow make sense of neural networks that have tens of billions of parameters that we don't fully understand, right? So, you know, we have two options, right? One is mechanistic interpretability, to sort of stare into the weight matrices of the neural networks.
Incoming livestream: And try to verify that they'll, correctly shut down the right production hosts, which may, which may crash prod.
Incoming livestream: Or really, the only real option is to understand these systems statistically and behaviorally.
Incoming livestream: And so evaluation is, like, the big blocker, I would say, in our field. And this applies to every area of autonomy in cybersecurity. So it applies to autonomous code remediation, it applies to autonomous alert management, so investigating and closing alerts, especially the most critical alerts.
Incoming livestream: Managing access control, so making sure that we're neither under-permissioned or over-permissioned in a large organization.
Incoming livestream: cloud posture management, and probably the list goes on here. So we have a problem, so we're a field in which we haven't taken evaluation all that seriously, I would say, and we're gonna need to transition into becoming a field in which,
Incoming livestream: we take it very seriously, much like autonomous driving, for example, right? So, the majority of time, or a significant amount of time in autonomous driving goes to verifying that the systems are safe, right? And in the next few years, we're gonna have to move into that kind of modality within cybersecurity as well.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so I'm going to start with the bad news, and then I want to talk about the sort of possible approaches to, evaluating autonomous AI cyber defense systems.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so, so here's, here's the, here's the bad news, here's the current situation. So, our,
Incoming livestream: our current ground truth is just way too noisy to support the evaluations that we need. So in classical machine learning, for folks here who have, like, sort of classical machine learning backgrounds.
Incoming livestream: You know, our problem setting is one in which we have a transparent problem, like, we have an image, and we want to know, is there a cat or dog in this image, right?
Incoming livestream: And we've developed a bunch… there's a bunch of classical sort of machine learning evaluation metrics that we've imported into cybersecurity, that are sort of based on that premise that the ground truth is really transparent.
Incoming livestream: rock curves, area under rock, area under precision recall. All of this assumes, that we have access to transparent labels, and we're operating in an environment, in which, the truth is ascertainable. Of course, in cybersecurity, this just isn't the case. That's not the kind of discipline, that we are. That's not the kind of domain in which we're operating.
Incoming livestream: with respect to program security, an AI system may propose a patch to a critical program. How do we know if the patch works, right? All we really have, you know, we're up against sort of theoretical computer science problems, like the halting problem, and knowing whether it works, and so really we're using sort of heuristics to decide whether or not the patch works, like passes the unit tests, this sort of thing.
Incoming livestream: Like, what's malware? You know, and is a program malware? Right, we're up against these same kind of theoretical problems, and also more sort of ontological and epistemological problems of, like, you know, the fact that many binaries are actually dual use.
Incoming livestream: And, okay, so, actually, so in my experience actually building, autonomous systems for AI security, I've come up against this problem in many practical settings. So, for example, has anybody here actually tried to get ground truth and train a system to, follow up on alerts in the SOC?
Incoming livestream: Probably a few. So I've spent a lot of time on this problem. So when you go and try to alert AI investigation of SOC alerts and try to actually get ground truth on which alerts were actually worth investigating and which were false positives, you'll find that there's, like, a double-digit disagreement rate, between SOC analysts, right? So if you're trying to label a SOC alert, like, in the fashion of cat versus dog.
Incoming livestream: You're gonna see a ton of noise in those labels.
Incoming livestream: If you're trying to build a system that automates access management, and you want to know.
Incoming livestream: who should really have access to that sensitive database table that has user messages in it, for example. You'll find that access investigators will disagree at a double-digit rate, right, with respect to who should actually access what. So if you're trying to train a machine learning system or evaluate its ability to automatically grant or deny access, you're dealing with a ton of noise in your labels, which makes the evaluation problem very different than the problem of evaluating a computer system, computer vision system that decides
Incoming livestream: Cat versus dog.
Incoming livestream: So I actually ran a little simulation for you guys, to sort of try to demonstrate this concept.
Incoming livestream: So if you… so you should sort of track me down after this, and I can tell you all the parameters of the simulation, but basically, if you add, like, a 1% flip rate, where you're flipping true positive to false positive and false positive to true positive, and your labeled data with which you're using to evaluate your machine learning system.
Incoming livestream: Your ability to measure whether or not your system actually works just plummets as you add noise. So in this simulation, I'm imagining you have, like, a sort of perfect AI system that predicts, for example, whether or not a SOC alert is a false positive.
Incoming livestream: And as we add noise from, you know, 0.5% of the labels flipping to 3% of the labels flipping, what we observe is that the system starts to look really inaccurate, and we sort of start to hit a noise ceiling around… around… above which we can't actually measure the system's ability to improve.
Incoming livestream: And I guess, I would say overall that the sort of bad news here is that all of this uncertainty is just built into the environment when you're trying to build autonomous cyber defense systems. So there are these theoretical computer science problems, like the halting problem and state space explosion that makes it impossible to know whether or not a program is bug-free, or whether or not a patch is gonna crash prod.
Incoming livestream: There are these sort of societal problems of people disagreeing about whether or not a binary is really malicious or not, given many binaries are dual use.
Incoming livestream: And we're not gonna… we're not gonna solve these problems, through more effort. We're always gonna be operating in this very uncertain environment, which, which begs the question, how are we gonna ship systems that we can rely on, which we can convince leaders of, which we can convince policymakers of, that can actually manage the cybersecurity of organizations autonomously?
Incoming livestream: Okay, so I think the good news is that I think that our framing has been really wrong in how we evaluate, autonomous cyber defense systems.
Incoming livestream: Okay. So, I don't know how many sort of classical ML people there are in the background, but anybody who studied ML in college or has done a lot of machine learning is familiar with this concept of the oracle, right? So this is the… so I actually brought in a picture, a real-life picture of the oracle here.
Incoming livestream: So she… so she sits there, somewhere in the Mediterranean, right, and she's, like, she's, like, presented with objects, and she labels them, and those labels are true, right? So, you know, on the left, she's,
Incoming livestream: She's labeling images as cat, or airplane, or banana. But, her process totally breaks down when we present her with these cybersecurity artifacts.
Incoming livestream: But, you know, today, when we measure the precision recall F-score rock curve of a security machine learning classifier, we're assuming we have an oracle, right? So this is the sort of evaluation model that we're using in evaluating autonomous… evaluating cyber-autonomous defense systems right now. So we have sort of the ML system, which could be an AI agent.
Incoming livestream: It's just a black box, we're not concerned about what's in the box. And what it's doing is it's saying whether
Incoming livestream: A security alert is a true positive or a false positive. So it outputs just a series of ones and zeros, right? So we sort of reduced its behavior to this series…
Incoming livestream: And then we have a set of labels. Now, the labels are actually totally noisy, and we can't trust them, right? The labels are like, you know, one SOC analyst who had a bad lunch, right, has decided that this alert was not investigation-worthy, right? So they're actually really noisy, but we assume that they are not noisy, right? And then we compute a bunch of summary statistics, which none of us actually trust very well in the field.
Incoming livestream: And then we use those to present to our leadership and decide whether that system is worth deploying.
Incoming livestream: So imagine how upset you'd be if you were an AI agent
Incoming livestream: that had just generated 100,000 tokens of thinking and tool calling and explanation of its behavior and information retrieval, to finally produce a well-explained decision about whether a SOC alert was a false positive or true positive. And you reduced all that complexity and reasoning down to a single bit of error information, right?
Incoming livestream: So that's actually what we're often doing when we talk about evaluation of autonomous cyber defense systems. We're sort of reducing all that complexity down,
Incoming livestream: To a single bit of information, which we don't actually, like, which we don't actually have a good label for.
Incoming livestream: Imagine if we hired security engineers, on the basis of these kinds of binary, multiple-choice tests, and never interrogated their actual ability to reason under uncertainty. That's sort of what we're doing with AI systems, at least that's the sort of lingua franca in terms of how we talk about evaluation in our field.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so here's the thesis of my talk. So I think these classical metrics that we typically use,
Incoming livestream: I think they're important, I think we need them. I think we need to acknowledge and sort of bake in how noisy they are in how we evaluate our ML systems.
Incoming livestream: But then I also think we need to really lean into understanding how our agents are reasoning and behaving, and evaluating that, also, as they make decisions. I think our mental model should be that when we hire a security engineer, we're hiring them to make good, well-validated decisions under the extreme uncertainty of our fields. And when we hire an AI agent, we're assessing their ability to do the same.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so here's how, in my own work, I've, operationalized this, and love to hear feedback after this talk, just to hear if other folks are thinking in the same, in the same direction.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so we need to evaluate…
Incoming livestream: our agents, as we move to deploy them autonomously, as we would humans, who are deciding under uncertainty.
Incoming livestream: So, we need to ask questions like, how high quality is the agent's reasoning process under complex, ambiguous circumstances? Did the agent come to the same conclusions as our best security engineers in the last 10 incidents? And if not, why not, and was the agent actually right? And actually.
Incoming livestream: At least in my work, many times, we find that agents are actually right against human labelers.
Incoming livestream: In a very practical and formal sense, what this means is that we need to define a kind of interview protocol, like a rubric for our agents. We need to define what good looks like, not just in terms of the outcome, but in terms of the process that they're taking to solve the highly ambiguous problems that we're gonna need our agents to solve. So, for example.
Incoming livestream: did they, you know, let's say we're looking at agents in an access management setting, and we're asking, did they correctly grant access, you know, to a contractor, you know, with respect to a database table containing millions of user messages? We don't just want to ask, did they make the right decision? We also want to ask, did they gather the right evidence? Did they reason correctly from first principles about that evidence?
Incoming livestream: Did they justify their decisions when explaining their decisions correctly? Did they explain clearly? Much like we'd be interviewing a human. And then we want to grade those agent trajectories at scale, based on the rubric and a very well-defined rubric protocol.
Incoming livestream: And then because that doesn't scale, we need to train an AI system to actually automate that process of reviewing agent trajectories. And then once we deploy, we need to monitor.
Incoming livestream: And see if the agent has gone off the rails. So here's sort of a worked example of applying this to an access management system, that monitors, granting access to sensitive resources within a company. We look at some… at criteria like evidence gathering, policy understanding, first principles, reasoning, whether the agent is sort of outputting logs in an auditable way, but also, finally, decision accuracy, also, but we… but it's a sort of whole…
Incoming livestream: you know, what I'm arguing here is that we need a much more holistic approach than just looking at these summary statistics.
Incoming livestream: You don't need a whole lot of samples to calibrate an LLM judge to do this sort of holistic, rubric-based analysis. Oftentimes, I mean, I don't have time to go into the details of the statistical model I'm using here, but oftentimes 100 samples is enough to get you started.
Incoming livestream: And once you have the ability to judge, an AI agent's ability to reason and decide under uncertainty at scale, then it gives, then it gives your team a sort of hill to climb in terms of improving an agent to the point at which you can deploy it. So typically the process that I've found works is, like, you define some bar, above which we'll deploy an agent, that takes all these holistic dimensions into account.
Incoming livestream: And then the team sort of hill climbs all of these criteria until we get above a bar and actually deploy the agent and sort of align that it's safe to deploy.
Incoming livestream: And then once it's deployed, you sort of monitor it and make sure it's at steady state.
Incoming livestream: So… I think, like, I just want to emphasize, at least in my work, this kind of approach has really unblocked a lot of progress.
Incoming livestream: So, you know, you could be in this kind of dystopian world, on the left.
Incoming livestream: Where you're just looking at accuracy, precision, recall, and F-score. And then when people sort of stare into these statistics, they sort of get into disagreement about whether, well, is it the model that's wrong, or are the labels wrong? The labels are really noisy, which is basically always the case. Or you could be in this different world, right, where you're looking at many different dimensions at once, all of which are somewhat noisy, but together give you a much more complete picture of whether your system's actually working.
Incoming livestream: So, I've got 3 more minutes, so I'm just gonna go pretty quickly through the last few slides. Just some practical, notes about process. So,
Incoming livestream: it should probably be obvious at this point of this if I believe this, but, like, you know, there's many, like, there's many teams right now in AI security that are operating with no evals at all. This is a real dystopia, right? Because then it's just all vibes, it's all engineers, you know, tweaking their agents and saying it works on their machine.
Incoming livestream: And it's very hard to ship if you have any level of rigor, right? So it's much better to have an evals program,
Incoming livestream: and treat it as iterative, you're gonna learn a lot as you start to evaluate your agents. And you want to keep your leadership aligned with the way that you're evaluating. And that makes it very easy to ship, because once you're above your deployment bar that you've sort of aligned with leadership, you can actually ship the agent and monitor its behavior in production.
Incoming livestream: This requires a lot of time. I would say it takes at least 50% of a team's time to do evaluation, but you actually move, like, 10 times faster.
Incoming livestream: Last thing I'll say, which would be a whole separate talk, is that, we both, at the startup where I am, but also at Meta, you know, have done some really interesting experimentation around automatically optimizing agent architectures using.
Incoming livestream: Using coding tools and prompt… and genetic algorithms that do prompt optimization. Once you have a really good evaluation, you can actually use AI coding tools and LLMs to actually hill climb all of those metrics, while also being careful of overfitting.
Incoming livestream: Okay, just summing up,
Incoming livestream: Okay, so we're under time pressure to do this, I think. I think if you look at the pace of progress over the last couple years and extrapolate forward, it sounds science fiction, but it's quite reasonable to expect that there will be armies
Incoming livestream: of, artificially general intelligent robots, scaling up, adversarial activity, against all of our networks.
Incoming livestream: If we can't… if…
Incoming livestream: If we can't deploy autonomous systems that can make sensitive changes in our infrastructure with confidence, and knowing they won't break stuff, we're gonna be in serious trouble, and evaluation is, in my mind, the main hard problem there.
Incoming livestream: And just to restate my thesis, I think we just need to move towards this model in which we start treating agents as decision makers on certainty, as opposed to, as opposed to just relying on these sort of Oracle-based statistics.
Incoming livestream: So, I don't know if we have time for questions, but yeah, thanks for having me, and yeah, would love to talk to people afterwards.
Incoming livestream: We've got a couple minutes for questions. We've got one in the back, right behind you, Matt.
Incoming livestream: I wanted to ask you, have you looked at improving your LLM judge with negative, judgments from the humans? Like, when the humans disagree more with the judge, has this worked better for you or worse?
Incoming livestream: I'm really trying to save how many things I give to the engineers to grade, because their time is very valuable, so I'm asking if you've had any study of the negatives, working better on your judge, improvements?
Incoming livestream: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we should… I think we should probably talk after,
Incoming livestream: But yeah, I mean, basically, my experience is… I mean, so I think you need a fairly complicated Bayesian model in order to build… in order to do this kind of calibration, and yeah, it needs to take into account, you know, you need to discount, you know, you need to put sort of more uncertainty around labels that you have more disagreement about, whereas if you have a committee of three reviewers and they all disagree, you want to weight those… if you have 3 reviewers all agreeing strongly, you know.
Incoming livestream: on, a given dimension of your evaluation. Obviously, those get weighted more highly, right, than cases where you have more disagreement, which I think is what you're saying. So, I think basically, yes, is my answer, but we should talk more afterwards.
Incoming livestream: One more up front here, I'll get… I'll bring, I'll bring my team.
Incoming livestream: Is there a material difference in some of the evaluation methods out there for models that are not in security work?
Incoming livestream: Sorry, can you add a little more? Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, so I'm familiar with evaluation for AI models that apply for different application sets of data, and not for security work.
Incoming livestream: So, is… can you apply those evaluation methods here, or do you have to do materially different evaluation methods? That's the question. I mean, I think basically…
Incoming livestream: I think in terms of, like, the statistics that you use, I think basically you just need to use textbook statistics, but take this multi-dimensional approach that I'm describing, where you're looking at the agent's ability to reason, gather the right data, you know, but I don't think there's any novelty in the math there, but I think that,
Incoming livestream: I think where the domain expertise comes in is understanding… it's basically, like, where you want domain expertise is, like, if you're… if you're deploying an autonomous…
Incoming livestream: system that patches your code and a human never looks at it. You want a lot of domain experts designing the evaluation… like, you want the same level of expertise as you'd have in terms of the people hiring your security staff, I would say. So you want deep domain experts deciding what the criteria in your rubric are. But the actual statistics, I think, don't change.
Incoming livestream: Okay, sounds good, yeah. Cool, thanks. Cool.
Incoming livestream: Alright, let's go ahead and keep moving. We've got one more before the break, and so, on behalf of the caterers, I would ask you to please stay away from the food until break time. They're still setting up.
Incoming livestream: I know…
Incoming livestream: I know it's hard. It's a… burning a lot of energy in the brain as we think about this stuff.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, we're gonna continue.
Incoming livestream: Momentarily with our general morning theme, bug reduction, operationalizing it in organizations.
Incoming livestream: And, all of the challenges therein.
Incoming livestream: How are we doing?
Incoming livestream: -Oh.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: Alright, looks like we're getting… looks like we're almost there.
Incoming livestream: Full screen, we'll get through it. All right.
Incoming livestream: Oh, and they need a mic, too. Brilliant.